During the last couple of lectures we were using the store action of the post controller to dump some
information about how the storage phosphate and generally uploading and handling files work in Lavell.
So now we will focus on actually implementing our working file upload so we don't need all these dump
methods.
We can keep it simple so you can go ahead and remove all those lines.
We also do not need that has fired a variable we can simply check inside the if statement if the fire
was uploaded.
We also have to remove this dye method.
And basically what we will do is we'll use the simple simplest possible way to store the file so we
will do that using the public disk which is default.
And basically we will check if the file was uploaded and if it was we will store it using the larval
name generating inside the thumbnails folder.
So this method the store method will return the file name to be stored.
So actually this will return a full path to the file which is a relative for the given disk now at this
point.
We will generate a new model using P2P artisan make model.
We will call this model image and we want to generate it together with the migration securities.
The new migration file called create images tables so let's open that and modify it a little bit.
So we want the defaults but we also want the path column so.
So this should be column of type String.
It will be called path.
So this is where we would store the path to the saved file but also in this case we would like relation
to the blog post ideas.
So we want to store it on the images table
and we want it to be new level because not every not every blog posts should have an image.
So now this column is called the blog post idea.
We will later change it so that we will use the image model for different images assigned to different
models.
And this is called a polymorphic relationship but it's not yet time to do that.
So now let's just proceed with adding a column specifically for the blog post.
So in this case we obviously do not need any migration on the other side.
So there is no need to add anything to blog post because the image holds the relation to the blog post
which means the blog post is their own inside of this one to one relationship.
Now inside the terminal.
Right.
BHP artisan migrate and now after adding those migrations we need to open those two models to define
our relationship.
So starting with an image first will add fuel property so we want to make puff mass a sign a a.
And also the blog post idea.
Now let's define the relation so we are the method called blog post and one to one relation would be
belongs to us.
Image belongs to a blog post.
So we defined a model class name which is up blog post and on the other side.
On the blog post model lets out the method image
and this time it has has one so it has one up image OK so we have the database modified by creating
new model together with migration.
We have defined the relation one to one relation between blog post and image.
So blog post is the owner of this relation.
It holds the image.
Notice that we haven't added a foreign key and this is because in future there will be a field which
will relate to other models.
So it can't have a foreign key to a specific table.
We'll explain all that when we'll cover polymorphic relationships.
Now we can close the terminal and go back to the post controller.
So here when the file is uploaded we are storing it using the default disk which this does the store
method.
It's using the default public these to store the file inside where.
Well of course the path for this disk is defined as this is using their local driver.
So we should already know where this would be stored.
So now we have to create a relation.
So we already have a blog post because we have created it here.
So create not only creates a model but also stores it.
So now we can operate on the relation.
And this is how you store a one to one relationship.
So you use image method of the relation save.
And here you should provide a new image model.
So since we have defined some feasible fields on the image like Path and blog posts I.D. we can now
call the image create and specify an array of fields.
So this would immediately create and store new image and the image save will associate this new image
with the blog post.
So we have the path here
well and basically that's it.
After making those changes and saving them you should be able to store a new blog post and if you happen
to upload an image with it it will also store the path to this image inside the separate images table
and create a relation on the blog posts so then you can read this image you URL when you will be showing
a blog post
so let's check the database.
So here is our empty images table and our blog posts tables so let's sorted by the most recent blog
posts and test that out so you have to be authenticated.
Then you have to go to adding a blog post form and let us select select image press create.
So we are not displaying the imagery yet will cover that in the next lecture.
But now let's check the database
so here's our new blog post with the idea.
Fifty one the most recent one but on the images table we have path to the image.
Our blog post idea specified and then if you will go to the folder inside your project directory storage
up public you will find this image to be stored.
Of course don't worry about how to delete this file from disk when that image should be disassociated
or removed or when someone would like to edit a blog post and select another file.
We will all handle that in the next lectures.